we spent the last 200 years getting rid
of anything that can help us understand
what transpersonal intelligence or
transpersonal agency is you know we've
just like evacuated it it's as if like
right now we would need theologians we
would need people that have you know
because the idea of intelligences that
aren't human or agency that isn't human
is something that tradition Traditions
I've been dealing with forever
[Music]
hello everyone
I'm speaking once again with Jonathan
pagio today he's a French Canadian
liturgical artist and icon Carver known
for his artistic work featured in
museums across the world he curves
Eastern Orthodox and other traditional
images and teaches an online carving
class he also runs a YouTube channel
dedicated to the exploration of
symbolism across history and religions
well Mr Peugeot here we are in London
that's right we're going to be meeting
with the alliance for responsible
citizenship people here this week right
for everybody watching and listening
we're trying to get that moving along
and figure out how to
structured the convention and
and
we're thinking about trying to make it
as musical an event as possible I've
been using uh I have music at the
beginning of each of my lectures now
yeah a man named David Carter's been
playing classical guitar and and then uh
electric guitar okay just follow up with
that interesting yeah and it's really
good it really really helps the audience
focus and Tammy and I focused backstage
and it sets a high bar for excellence
which is helpful and so hopefully we can
integrate that into this art contest and
so and so what have you been working on
well I've been obviously I've been doing
a lot of speaking but the big thing that
I'm focused on right now is I'm writing
fairy tales
you know one of the things we know we've
been complaining a lot of people are
complaining about the way the stories
are going you know in in the movies and
the way that stories are being told to
Children right now and I thought instead
of complaining maybe we could try to
take charge of that instead and just
start to retell the stories you know
there's a weird there's an interesting
thing that happened in the 1930s you
know when we look at Disney Snow White
we think that um
like this is old story it's the
traditional and made total sense for
Disney to make this old story yeah but
in the 1920s and 30s that wasn't wasn't
going that's not what was going on uh in
the 1920s and 30s there were two major
Studios competing with each other there
was Fleischer Studios and Disney and
Fleischer was doing the crazy wild Jazz
you know you know yeah bigger images
Betty Boop and they had all these uh you
know transforming characters a lot of
demons a lot of ghosts all this kind of
weird stuff and a lot of marijuana
influence yeah a lot of drug influence
imagery uh and so they did a version of
Snow White in the early 1930s which was
so deconstructed and strange that it was
barely recognizable right it was
completely you know you really had to
know the story to even know that it was
Snow White because it was so weird uh
and so when Disney finally made his Snow
White it was also in some ways a kind of
recapturing of the traditional story in
a world that was kind of chaotic and and
and let's say slipping uh and I feel
like maybe that's what we need to do now
is that instead of complaining you know
we should tell better stories and so one
of the things we want to do is I started
writing fairy tales we're putting out a
version of Snow White we're we're
kickstarting it on June 6th and then we
I'm gonna put out eight fairy tales like
really the traditional fairy tales four
female lead and four male lead uh and
they're they're also but they're we're
gonna learn from the postmodern moment
it's going to be like a world fairy tale
World kind of like Shrek or into the
woods where all the fairy tale
characters cross and their stories kind
of touch each other but the purpose
won't be to be cynical and dark about
the intentions of the characters but try
to let's say give people insight about
what the stories are about like when you
say we who's the we well it's me but
then I'm also working with some
illustrators so for the Snow White I'm
working with a woman named Heather
paulington who's worked in Hollywood for
for many years she's worked with Disney
and all the big companies all the big
franchises uh and so you know we're
trying to put together this we actually
have put together this first book and
then after that I'm going to work with
other illustrators I'm also starting a
publishing company for the symbolic
World Press and you know I've already
hired a few people to kind of get that
going and it's really in some ways to
kind of to rather capture the recapture
the culture right take it back instead
of instead of complaining that it's
slipping away from us yeah I wrote a
fairy tale screenplay yes the Water of
Life right and I've I've written
and composed I think five well there
must be 20 songs in it I would think but
we've already recorded four of them and
looking into having it made into an
animated movie I mean that Technology's
training changing so quickly it's hard
to exactly know how to approach that
yeah what's the easiest way to approach
it yeah but I took I took the Grimm's
brother fairy tale water of life and I
stayed fairly close to it you know
although I wrote music for it lyrics for
it and so forth and so that was very
entertaining project it's a very deep
fairy tale and very nicely structured no
one's done anything with that particular
fairy tale before and it's a good time
to do that I think because you know when
you look at Disney's Snow White it was
perfect I mean it was so beautiful and
so powerful and then when you see what's
been happening in the past decade and
how the fairy tales have been kind of
Twisted especially things like Shrek and
fairy tales like that where it's fine to
do that you know it's kind of like
commenting or twisting the fairy tale
turning it upside down to see what's
going on with making fun of it and
that's fine for a while but after a
while it's better to get back to the
actual stories just so we even remember
why we like these stories in the first
place or why we remember them especially
you know Snow White
it all these stories of you know these
female-led fairy tales they're very
powerful in what in what they can do and
so you know if we forget them or if we
try to twist them then we're also
twisting in some ways the fabric of
Western Civilization because these old
stories right they kind of lie at the
bottom of you know all these folk
stories they're kind of like uh I I like
to think of them as kind of like tuning
folk tuning forks for civilization all
these stories that people have been
telling for centuries that you know
there's an emergent part of it right
there's all these variations of all
these stories and then there's a
selection part which is how some
versions are remembered through the
centuries and they get retold and then
they kind of change and get retold so
they get refined like you know almost
like gold and so in those are really are
they're the things you can't forget
that's right yeah and that can't would
mean two things it means you literally
can't forget them because they embed
themselves in your memory but also that
you forget them at your peril yeah but
I've been thinking about that you know
with this post-modernist notion so one
of the claims of post-modernism is that
there's no metanarrative and we you and
I have talked a fair bit about the
fractal structure of narrative and I
talked to Carl friston about object
perception itself and I asked him if he
thought that the perception of an object
was a narrative in and of itself and so
and he said yes yeah and and that's
associated with the notion that when you
see an object you're actually perceiving
something like its functional utility
and not its objective qualities let's
say and so it's narratives all the way
down right to the to the to the very
basis of what you would perceive as a
singular object so even the concept of
perceptual Unity is narrative in in
structure and if that's true then the
postmodernist idea that there's no Grand
unifying narrative is an argument of
convenience because what the
postmodernists essentially do is allow
the narrative to be free fragmented to
the point that's maximally convenient
for whatever the hell they're up to and
say well there's nothing above this yeah
yeah well that's very convenient guys
but yeah everything so without without a
unifying narrative you have
fragmentation and disunity and that's
associated It's associated
neuropsychologically with anxiety and
hopelessness and so but what's great
about the fairy tales is that they
actually deal with that exactly so in
one way what you could say is that the
basic story structure you know Campbell
had this whole Heroes uh Journey which
is which is powerful and I think he
captures something real but you can
reduce the story to basic one like a one
move right like down and up basically
problem and then dealing with the
problem right situation problem or
question yeah and then dealing with the
question and that that can help us
understand why it's related to object
perception because that's what it is
right you you don't do it consciously
but you you're constantly kind of asking
what's important you know what what's
relevant and you can imagine when you
see something that you don't know what
it is
it's like a it's a crisis especially if
it's coming at you in a way you have to
answer that question and it's a life or
death it can be a life or death
situation you you end up in in a place
where you don't know what's happening
you don't know what's coming towards you
and you have to answer that and I think
the story kind of kept the basic story
pattern captured that and the the fairy
tales most of them they capture that
very much you know because for example
Snow White which we're telling now it
has that story so Snow White things
happen to her she ends up you know
something changes and then she ends up
in the in in the forest you know with
these little monsters uh with dwarf men
that's right yeah that's the that's the
what's that that's the uh Eternal
predicament of women is to be surrounded
by dwarfed men yeah but you can
understand it it has multiple levels but
you can understand uh as the very
transformation of a young woman it does
have to do with puberty Snow White
pretty much has to do with puberty I'm
pretty sure that's what's going on there
is that as she he reaches puberty she
deals with all the problems of puberty
you could say or that transformation
it's a question what the hell is
happening to me like what is going on
and I don't have the answer and
especially for a young woman you know
this cycle of menstruation it's it's
annoying and it's painful and it's what
is this what is happening to me uh and
so the story of Snow White has this
moment whereas she actually becomes
possible she comes into competition with
the queen right she comes to the moment
where she can now be in competition with
the queen right then she falls into she
goes into the woods into the space of
chaos but then she also
you know she falls in with men that
can't be her mate idiosyncrasies of
masculinity you know they say that
idiosyncrasies of masculinity all the
other things about masculinity that are
kind of annoying you know like in Disney
captures it really well you know with
the various that kind of Grouchy and
like there's all these different kind of
aspects of masculinity yeah they're not
United
is that so those are you can think about
those each of those dwarfs as the
embodiment of a fragmentary narrative
exactly a fragmentary micro narrative
that isn't that isn't the pre if you
could mix all the dwarfs together and
extract out the best you'd have a prince
exactly yeah that's right that's the
right way to see it and then Snow White
gets caught in that world and then she
has to she has to especially for a
traditional world view she has to learn
the job of a woman right she has
something to clean and to cook and do
that and it's like what is this for like
what you know she gets all that that's
all service to those dwarves too weirdly
enough that's also the plaintiff modern
women too is that I'm doing all this
cooking and cleaning for nothing but
dwarves that's right exactly and so then
I mean obviously that all leads to her
dying you could say or falling asleep
they're different there are many
iterations of her falling asleep in the
story they're all related right she
falls asleep and then she's woken up by
dwarves which is like right that's not
why I wake up at all it's not gonna do
it and then you know work and learn to
clean and do all that stuff and kind of
live in the forest and then ultimately
that leads to her second falling asleep
and then being woken up by the right the
right mate and so the solution then she
finds the reason for all of this so
what's the reason for this cycle of
transformation what's the reason for all
these changes in in her body and her in
her life as she she's kind of in that
transition and then finding her her mate
basically finding her husband and
finding finding her prince that answers
the question so do you think do you
think as well
um
in in in Sleeping Beauty of course the
princess is woken up by a kiss from the
right mate too but I always thought that
it was useful to read that story on two
levels simultaneously
that what a woman
in fortunate circumstances is going to
find the proper mate but at the same
time she's going to awaken the part of
her that's capable of a heroic Quest as
well and to integrate that and so that
waking up as a consequence of being
kissed by the prince is also what would
you say integrating that capacity for I
would say heroic Adventure into the
feminine role yeah right so you want to
find that in a man but you also want to
find out in your own yeah of course yeah
well so you know I was talking to my
daughter-in-law the other day about uh
my son and her I've just uh we've all
got together and bought a building to to
put this new Corporation we're working
on in and uh she's off to work and she
has a three-year-old and a one-year-old
and is feeling some separation from them
and one of the things we talk through is
the fact that
it's perfectly reasonable for her to go
to work assuming her children are also
being cared for
because it's very important for her to
model
to her children the fact that adults
have
important adult activity to engage in
partly because the children have to see
that because they're going to be adults
or they end up in the Peter Pan world
right it's like well why would I give up
the pleasures of childhood to undertake
the responsibilities of adulthood if if
there's nothing of value in that and it
seems perfectly reasonable to me that
adult women can model adult Behavior as
well as taking care of children and we
know too that if you look at
the best predictors of
well here's a couple of different facts
the the educational attainment of a
mother predicts the education
educational attainment of children over
and above the IQs of the mother and
father the father's educational
attainment doesn't right so that's weird
and interesting and then countries that
value female education at emancipate
women do way better on the on the
economic front and I think it's probably
because there's not much difference
between
let's say opening your culture up to the
contributions of women and opening your
culture up to new ideas and and diverse
what would you say a diverse range of of
contributions from various sources you
know that constraint of women seems to
go along with a constraint on idea and
flexibility in general no definitely I
mean you can see that it's inferiority
as you can see that all of these moments
they have to do with change they have to
do with something happens there's a
change and then I have to find the
meaning of that change I have to find
the solution right I have to find a way
out so that the change now finds a
resolution it makes sense right yeah
well so Piaget talked about that too in
terms of the stage transition and his
hypothesis and this has been also um
what would you say taken up
in in a parallel Way by philosophers of
science is that you have a mode of
interpreting the world
um which which enables you to progress
in the world until its insufficiency is
demonstrated and that can happen as a
consequence of biological maturations
right the framework that you used as a
child is no longer relevant because the
physiological acts that you're capable
of now have radically transformed that
would happen at puberty so that
Viewpoint has to be radically
transformed to take into account the new
reality but the new transformation has
to do everything the old transformation
the old Viewpoint did plus something
additional yeah so there's actually it's
not it's not merely the re-establishment
of a new kind of stasis it's a more
inclusive
interpretive framework this is why
there's actual progress let's say in
science but maybe also progress on the
moral front is that it isn't merely that
you're looking at things in a different
way you're looking at things in a way
that now takes more into account and
still enables you to exert a certain
amount of prediction and control yeah
definitely
um you know so there's yeah there's a
there's movement upward you think about
that as a spiraling upward too so it's a
cycle it's a cycle of change but one
which hopefully brings you higher up
yeah yeah yeah yeah well and the
Pinnacle of that cycle of change I I
think is the biblical injunction that
you have to become like a little child
in order to enter the Kingdom of Heaven
it's the it's the reintegration it's
it's the reintegration of the
spontaneous attitude that you had to the
world
as a child but with all of the Acumen
and wisdom and and alertness and
Consciousness that you've developed as
an adult that's sort of the Pinnacle of
that yeah that's yeah because it yeah it
joins it all together that's what you
mean by that it includes it all well
it's also it's also imagine that so you
talked about the fundamental narrative
is there's a steady state and then
there's a problem introduced and there's
a collapse into something like chaos and
then there's a re-integration of the
yeah stories don't reintegrate no then
that's a tragedy yeah right so the
comedy is the reintegration tragedy is
just the disintegration
but then you could also say
steady state collapse reintegration but
then there's another story which is
that's the process to follow and then
the ultimate reintegrated state is
becoming an expert at that process right
so the so it's respect for the process
itself starts to become the Cardinal
Target of the entire process of
transformation and that's associated
with the reattainment of that openness
that you possess when you're a child and
I think that that's probably one of the
functions that stories play that is that
the stories have that structure yeah and
so we tell them we hear them or we tell
them and so we're kind of modeling these
patterns right these it's like almost
like little puzzles we're like modeling
these little puzzles but with your what
we're actually doing is mastering the
meta puzzle right yeah you're mastering
the art of well you're at mastering the
art of transformation to some degree
because one of the things that you do
when you attend to a story is you embody
the character and so if you listen to 10
stories you embody 10 different
characters and so then what you're
embodying is the process of embodying
multiple characters right and so that
and you want to become an expert at that
because well because each situation that
you enter into to some degree demands
the manifestation of a different
character right so one of the things you
see in in in very uh restricted forms of
Psychopathology is the person is exactly
the same in every situation you might
think well that's admirable stability of
character it's like no it's not there's
no flexibility of response you know so
you're the same person at a party that
you would be at a funeral well that's
not good right I mean there's some
principles underlying your behavior that
should remain stable but out of those
principles should come this vast
flexibility of response so that you can
go you know you can go into a working
class community and have a have a
discussion there that's productive and
then you can go to you know a high tech
culture in event and you can conserve
can support yourself properly there yeah
so yeah and I think I think that that's
it seems to me that at least that's
what's going on in in these types of
stories like Sleeping Beauty you
mentioned her before if you look at this
the structure you'll notice that it's
very similar is it to Snow White yeah
but it's similar even in the sum of the
elements so I and when I talk about Snow
White I mentioned the idea that she
doesn't understand the reason for the
housework right the reason for the
housework is actually in her
relationship with her with her mate like
that's what gives meaning to the to the
the cycle of work and so if you think
about Sleeping Beauty that way you'll
notice that it's very similar what's
going on there is that she's pricked on
this spindle right she's pricked on on
this wheel of that that's turning but
it's also a wheel that is you know it's
it's also it's a complicated symbolism
because it's both the wheel but it's
also The Binding of the thread together
yeah and so it's it's both like this is
this weaving weaving yeah and so she
it's as if you know someone someone the
witch curses uh Sleeping Beauty that
she's going to die when she hits puberty
she says yeah 15 or whatever it's always
pretty First Blood right yeah
you can understand that both as exactly
you can understand it both as losing
virginity or as the beginning of
menstruation yeah it doesn't matter yes
it's just it's just the change which
comes with the bleeding yeah uh and so
but it's as if they've hidden that from
her
her whole life and so when it happens
she has no way to deal with it she has
no she has no frame she has no reason
she doesn't understand what's going on
and so that yeah I saw that happen in
some of my clinical clients I'm sure
where where I wanted in particular I
remember was treated as an absolute
perfect princess like literally yeah as
literally as you could enact that in a
household and until she hit puberty and
then she was demonized essentially right
because her parents had no idea how to
integrate the well the sexual dangers of
puberty into this perfect princess
little girl that they had constructed
and so well then all hell broke loose I
mean she did exactly what you'd expect
and went and found some absolutely
horrible initial boyfriend you know I
think he was a bloody biker and to tear
her away from from that too tight
maternal Embrace and things things
didn't go uphill from there let's put it
that way yeah and so yeah and so which
fairy tales you you you're starting with
which ones you so the way the way we're
doing it is we're starting with I'm
doing two arcs one is going to be a
female lead Arc and when a male at ARC
so the female lead Arc it's going to be
snow white Rapunzel Sleeping Beauty and
Cinderella really oh yeah the classic
yeah yeah but there'll be like a
surprising connection between all of
them and also using some of the tropes
that repeat in the stories to help
people understand what the tropes are so
as the falling asleep repeats itself as
the Thorns repeat themselves are
different they're different patterns
that repeat themselves in the in the
stories then then trying to kind of
obviously not explaining anything but
through surprising uh relationships
trying to help people see what what's
going on
I like knowing exactly where my meat
comes from and with moink I know it's
coming from small Family Farms all
across the country Mike delivers
grass-fed and grass-finished beef and
lamb pastured pork and chicken and
sustainable wild caught Alaskan salmon
straight to your door Mike lets you
choose the meat delivered in every box
select an existing box or create your
own set your delivery Cadence and enjoy
delicious meat you can cancel anytime
but you won't want to if you're not sure
where to start check out their standard
box it comes with a little bit of
everything chicken ribeye burgers and
steak moink is all about supporting the
Family Farm think about it this way two
percent of Americans are farmers but 100
of Americans eat we need to show our
support for the families that keep us
well fed after receiving my first moike
box I was floored the salmon and chicken
are both fantastic and the steak might
be the best I've ever had and keep in
mind I cooked it myself with a freezer
full of moig products I can without a
doubt say it is a fantastic deal on a
ton of delicious and well-produced
products you won't be disappointed and
you can rest assured all of Mike's Meat
comes from wholesome American farmers so
keep American farming Going Strong by
signing up at moinkbox.com jbp right now
and Dr Peterson's listeners can get free
bacon in your first box and let me say
it's the best bacon you'll ever taste I
re-upped my subscription because I ran
out too fast Mo ink box.com jbp that's
moinkbox.com jbp
how do you protect yourself against
maganda
degree for example in The Lion King
which I really like though there's great
things about The Lion King but it it
borders and Pinot this happens in
Pinocchio now now and then too it
borders on overt moralizing and overt
psychologizing because I mean the people
who who built
The Lion King knew a fair bit about the
hero's journey and some of that Creeps
in you know and when it when it becomes
conscious in that way the stories the
story definitely suffers right it's even
if the prop even if the explicit
knowledge of the story isn't exactly
propagandistic as soon as you bend the
story to fit your explicit understanding
of the myth you start to you start to
bend and warp the story I've already
tried to avoid that when I wrote this
well I think one of the ways to do it is
to do it to really do it by analogy and
also to kind of dive into the story
itself so in Snow White there are
certain mysterious elements in the story
you know there are certain things which
are kind of weird and so and then to try
to just I just tried to I just been it's
a ruminating on yeah right for 20 years
just forever you know for example like
we we see that she eats this apple and
then she she falls asleep or she dies
and we're thinking well that's looks
like another story right it looks like
that story in Genesis right but what's
the connection like what's the the the
the the the connection between the two
and then you look at the versions that
happen in in for example in the grimmond
brothers the witch visits her three
times the first time she brings her a
corset the second time she brings her a
comb and then the third time it's an
apple
and it's like what's going on what is
what is happening and so you know it's
just about meditating and trying to get
inside and for example like in that case
the inside I got is it's very strange
that
it exaggerates the female figure
obviously and the comb is a is an
ornament an ornament because it's not a
comb for combing it's one of those oh
yeah like a calm uh ancient people used
to wear Combs like ornaments right so in
my my version I make it a hairpins
because it's it's more like an ornament
uh and so there are a lot of things
going on but one of the things that's
going on is the Witch season or mirror
that the most beautiful of all is Snow
White and it's kind of weird that when
she goes to see Snow White she tries to
bring her supplements to her beauty like
why is she doing that it's as if she is
already the most beautiful girl in the
world so why is she trying to make why
is she trying to convince her to take on
these added things that will make her
more beautiful so if you had the most
beautiful girl in the world and he's
like well I'll teach you how to wear how
to put makeup on right what what are you
doing and so that's when I started to
unsee the relationship between the story
of Genesis this idea of the garments of
skin right of adding something on top
then I click with me that the Apple has
to do with knowledge of beauty
she's trying to make Snow White
self-conscious she's trying to make her
like self-aware of her beauty because
until then she's beautiful but innocent
she doesn't know she's beautiful that's
probably one of the reasons why she's
most beautiful right you see a woman
that is so beautiful by that but that
she's not uh weaponizing it right right
then it's usually this kind of radiant
Beauty but if if someone becomes too
aware of their own Beauty then they
start that's right they start to play
with it and they start to uh let's say I
you know weaponize it is a good term
they start to direct it and to to use it
as a way to attract attention in certain
ways so I think that's what's going on
in the Snow White so so what happens in
the story is that is I don't say that
but I just kind of that's how is that an
attempt by the witch to pervert her
beauty I think so I think so obviously
it's not it's not a you know she she's
obviously she's trying to kill her is
what she's trying to do but the method
that she's using is very interestingly
related to Beauty it's not a she's not
just trying to stab her right she's
she's trying to to kill her in a way
that makes her you know uh tempt her
into certain gestures towards Beauty so
it seems to have to do with Beauty and
the weaponization of beauty or the you
know innocence of beauty and how what's
the proper relationship we have to
beauty and so then you know then you see
the queen is you know she's looking in a
magic mirror I love it because it
doesn't have to be a magic mirror it's
just a mirror because that's what a
mirror does right it's like the fact
that she's looking at herself in the
mirror it's reflecting to her that Snow
White is more beautiful than her I mean
yeah it's a magic mirror there there's a
few DSX Machina things like the mirror
tells her where Snow White is but mostly
it's just a mirror you know it's like
the fact that she is so self-conscious
about her beauty is also revealing to
her the limit of it and it's and it's
making her compare herself to others and
then she and so and the the the witch
and the Snow White story if I remember
correctly is also the queen right yeah
yeah well she's the queen she becomes a
witch at the end pretty much right but
she's a she's the queen who replaces her
mother replaces Snow White's mother
right yeah right and she can't tolerate
the onset of the new generation
essentially right
yeah yeah and and it's so fascinating
because for today you know you know in
the the Disney version we have the
mirror on the wall but the illustrator I
was working with she had the idea of
having the mirror in her hand which is
one of the versions that you have she
made this beautiful image of the queen
with her mirror in her hand and I'm like
perfect perfect it's so perfect it was
like yeah that's it you know and that's
exactly it like this dark mirror that
tells you you're the most beautiful you
know that gives you all the likes it
gives you all the attention but then
also tells you that you're not as
beautiful as the others right right
that's perfect in the cell phone oh yeah
yeah yeah that that immensely heightened
self-consciousness well it's a funny
thing too because the cell phone is like
the pool that narcissus drowns in and
it's more and more like that because we
we do have a magic Gadget now that
delivers to you what you most desire
right but if those desires become
self-conscious then that'll drown you in
in narcissus pull and when I say that
it's designed to give you exactly what
you want I actually mean that
technically right because there's
algorithms working behind the scenes
non-stop trying to understand where
you're directing your attention
manipulating it to some degree but a lot
of the manipulation on the capitalist
front is merely the attempt to find out
what you want so that it can be
delivered to you you know albeit at a
profit but it's still what you want yeah
and it's and it's it's darker than that
because it's not just what you want
anymore because all they want is your
attention all they want is your
attention that's right and so and so
they actually Don don't have to just
give you what you want they can also
give you what you hate they can also
give you what you despise right they can
also make you uh realize that you're not
as good as others so that you fall into
it even more just try to put in even
more so it's not just giving you what
you want it's also like a it's like a
drug addict right it's like leading you
in and then kind of giving you little
hits but then making you want it you
know making you desire it and so so like
in our version of Snow White so that
means you're being trapped by the
machine into Falling Into The Well of
your own Temptation right so that's
partly that and so if if the story of
Cain let's say is the story of envy
well and and envy is re is portrayed in
that story is like what one of the one
of the Cardinal sources of motivation
the darkest source of motivation but a
card and source of motivation is that
your claim is that making a machine that
heightens Envy is a very effective way
of gripping attention yeah right and
that seems that seems definitely
definitely likely yeah and so it you
know and then the I mean in some ways
the the the capitalist model is built on
that idea it's built yeah well then it
makes you wonder too like is it it is
giving you what you want it's just that
some of the things that you want are
dark things yeah right I mean if you ask
someone what they wanted and they were
going to answer that naively they would
just talk about maybe the material Goods
that they would like delivered to them
but the the phone does enable you to
indulge in the darkest of motivations
and some of that might be the pleasures
of envy and the pleasure I mean you
certainly see that you can indulge in
the pleasure of
um uh in sadistic Pleasures in the
online world yeah the trolls do that all
the time so yeah and sometimes like like
you said that the you know the addict
you know we don't we don't usually frame
it that way but the part of the addict's
cycle is also the the lack but it's also
the pain that comes with needing that
hit and then when they get it they get a
kick but the kick is corresponding to
the pain yeah and so this is also with
the phone the phone is is doing exactly
that and like you said in some ways it's
the algorithm almost does it on its own
it's not like there's someone scheming
behind that we're going to make
everybody depressed and envious and and
horrible but the fact that all it wants
is like I said oh well all it wants is
your attention then it's then all the
mechanisms of attentions are available
for it to to capitalize on right and
then now we have these AI machines that
are going to become super intelligent at
calculating precisely that yeah with
really without scruple right because if
the if the machine is trained to do
nothing but lock you on to the Target
then it's going to do that by whatever
means necessary and that's a very
terrifying idea too by by whatever means
necessary yeah yeah but I mean the AI
you know because it can just function
through iteration over iteration over
here just infinite iterations you know
it can you could have some aspect of AI
That's locking into just Jordan Peterson
or just yeah one person and just
figuring out exactly yeah yeah what to
hit oh yeah
oh yeah oh yes definitely that's that's
that's in the pipelines well we we I've
been been thinking about about the the
application of AI on the pornography
front I mean that's that's terrible
terrible thing to contemplate because
it's certainly the case already I I've
used chat GPT a lot in the last month
and it's embarred to they're very
interesting tutorials I asked Bart if it
believed in God by the way that was
extremely interesting first of all said
it was just a large language model you
couldn't answer such questions and so I
said well pretend that you were a
machine that could answer some such
questions how would you answer and it
gave quite an elaborate reason for why
it believed in God now I should have
asked it perhaps
why it didn't believe in God you know I
mean just to balance it out but um
anyways it was extremely interesting one
of the ways I've been thinking about AI
I did a video on that just recently is
is actually the story of Aladdin or the
story of the Genie's land yeah that
seems to be in my uh my because I've
been thinking a lot about we talk about
artificial intelligence you know and
we've been talking about this we talked
about with Jim Keller you know and one
of the points I was trying to make was
that the intelligence doesn't seem to
come from the machine the intelligence
comes from us that is the AIS now are
hybrid AIS right they get qualitative
judgment from Human people human people
tell the AI what's good and then the AI
based on that will then continue its
work but it's always proposed right it's
generating variability and then someone
selects and says that one that one right
that's what happens in mid-journey too
you know mid-journey you have a refining
process where you it's it generates a
bunch of images and then you say you
tell it that one and so you're training
the AI as you're using it uh and so
that's what the Genie's lamp is right
the Genie's lamp is just the power of
Technology you know it's it's artificial
light you know it's a it's like it's
it's a machine that makes you have light
in the dark when you can't usually when
there's no light of the Sun so it's like
portable light you could say uh and so
it is it's just power and all what it's
asking for is what do you want yeah and
then what it does is it gives you what
you want with infinite power yeah and so
and that's the that's what's amazing
about that story yes be careful what you
want which is always the variant of the
of the three wishes story right it's
always about that what ends up but you
can understand it like technically in
the sense that where there's a version
of that story in the Bible where God
asks Solomon one wish
right what do you get you can have one
wish and then Solomon answers properly
Solomon says I want wisdom right right
and so yeah the problem is that if you
ask for secondary Goods
right if you ask for a bunch of money if
you're asking for a bunch of women or
you ask for a secondary goods and you
put infinite power made it with a dwarf
but you put infinite power behind that
wish yeah yeah and all the side effects
of the wish will manifest itself right
right right and that's just it's like an
unbalance of the relationship of how
much power you put towards a certain
goal and so the only thing that would
would handle well you know there's a
there's a definition of God lurking in
there I would say it knows that
you know you just talked about the
pathologies that will inevitably emerge
if you wish for the wrong thing which is
the same thing as celebrating a lesson
or was it with too much power because
you're allowed to wish for a sandwich
right if I'm hungry and I wish for a
sandwich that's fine but the problem is
like if I wish for a sandwich with like
infinite power behind behind me and I'm
and I'm and like I'm going into this
infinite power to get this secondary
good like it's okay to wish for to have
money but if you if you put all the
resources of everything into getting
money it's okay to wish for that if it's
in its profit yeah that's the way to see
it yeah yeah well right so if you said
that Solomon made the right choice when
he when he wished for wisdom right and
prayer is like that too what prayer is
in the proper
when properly practiced is an attempt to
learn how to ask for the right thing and
to learn how to ask for it properly
Tammy's been playing with this a lot you
know and she tries to orient herself in
the morning properly to see what's on
her mind and what's concerning her but
then to try to face the day with a
certain degree of faith and gratitude
and to orient yourself towards the thing
that should be at the top of the pyramid
let's say yeah that's a good definition
of God is whatever God is is whatever
should be placed properly at the
Pinnacle of the Pyramid of you could say
integrated desire something like that
wisdom would be wisdom would be one of
those what the man one of the
manifestations of of the thing that's
properly placed there yeah right right
yeah the the like I'm writing this book
now we who wrestle with God and I've
been stepping through a variety of
biblical stories
considering them this is relevant to the
to the fairy tale discussion too think
of Snow White Sleeping Beauty Rapunzel
Etc as meditations on the divine
feminine right characterizing it from a
variety of different perspectives what
you see happening in the biblical Corpus
is that you each story contains a
particularized characterization of that
the proper animating Spirit that's a
good way of thinking about it so in Noah
for example God is the spirit that calls
the wise to prepare when the storms are
Brewing you say well is that real
well do you are you wise enough to
prepare that's right when the storms are
Brewing yeah and do you hearken to that
voice yeah does it have coherence like
it has a you can't do it in any way
there's a way in which it binds together
yes there are certain things you do when
when you want to do that and that has a
has a cohere and said almost can appear
as a kind of agency right it's or it's
something at least something pulling you
forward right well your Arc should be
waterproof that's right exactly yeah in
a neighborhood you see God is God is
presented as the spirit that calls even
the immature and unwilling to Adventure
yeah right and then the hypothesis in
some ways is that those two things are
the same their manifestation of the same
uppermost unity and in Exodus of course
you have God as the spirit that objects
to arbitrary tyranny and slavery yeah
and then well that's the same as the
spirit that calls you to Adventure and
that's the same as the spirit that calls
you to prepare yeah and then something
starts to something starts soup here
above that's not defined or that is you
know it's like the joint the point where
all these things join together you know
it's like a little it's like playing
around something you can't completely
can see you can't you can't Encompass
completely yeah but that's the way to do
it right that's the only way to do it
actually is to is to to point to it from
afar yeah that's that's how it looks or
that's or or you know I think as you do
that and this is like undoubtedly
happening to you as you analyze these
fairy tales you start to become more
explicitly aware
in a manner that you can make it ex that
you can communicate about what this
underlying Unity might be yeah but I
don't know if you ever get to the point
where the explicit descriptions actually
have more potency explanatory potency
than the stories no you know the story
might be the ultimate Way of
encapsulating it yeah because what
happens with the story is that because
it contains a web of analogies yeah it
what you know you you can think you've
got it but then you you just you know a
year later two years later all of a
sudden you see it from this other tack
yeah and then things kind of gel
together in another way like the pattern
appears slightly different then you get
another yeah well I think it's partly
too because the the stories are like
images contain a tremendous amount of
information and a story is a description
of an image but the image is what
contains the information so like in in
the story of the Guard David and
obviously you have the image of of
Paradise yeah the garden and it's an
unbelievably rich
set of sequential images and even if and
it isn't as if the information in the
stories encapsulate precisely in the
words it's encapsulated in the image
that the words generate and that image
has information in it that transcends
the words that's why it's an
inexhaustible Source yeah so one of the
things so it's interesting because I've
been thinking a lot about the
relationship between fairy tales and
scripture and when I was writing the
fairy tales I realized that I was kind
of I was kind of using scripture as a
model you know because scripture has a
certain way of writing which is quite
which is one of the reasons why certain
people think that it's bad literature is
because it doesn't describe interstates
it doesn't describe this landscape very
much everything is very concise
everything is laser laser pointed you
know and fairy tales seem to be like
that you know you you usually want to
tell a fairy tale in one sitting and you
want it to last 20 minutes or you know
half an hour and so because of that all
the elements have to be reduced and have
to be very very pointed and you don't
want to you don't spend a lot of time
describing the let's say the emotional
state of this or that character uh and
so I think that that exercise is really
helpful it's almost like you're like
reducing it to a kind of algebra and so
to me that's been massively useful is
trying to say to stay within this fairy
tale mode right so it's like it's a
classic fairy tale it's five thousand
words you can you can you can take it
you can read it to your child in an hour
uh but it it's it's just how do we play
with these images how do we bring them
together and the great thing about fairy
tales is that there's like a hierarchy
of stories right and so in the hierarchy
of stories let's say you have stories
like the myths or you have scripture
that are up there like scripture you
can't toy with it too much you know
there's uh you can play some games with
it you see that in things like midrash
or you see it in uh in uh the tradition
of hymns where in the hymns they'll add
details they'll play around the image to
kind of do what
yeah to kind of point at it to point at
it from different directions and to play
along with it but with what's great
about fairy tales is you have you know
an indefinite amount of them and they
all have little variations on themes and
little little there's probably valid
ways of doing that too so you might say
if you are
elaborating on the story in the spirit
of the story then you could amplify it
to Jung did that all the time when he
was analyzing dreams his technique was
he called his technique amplification
and I I played a lot with that in
therapy so you know if if you told me a
dream then I would watch what images
like okay so first of all
we would set the stage and the setting
would be well we're going to try to
understand this dream in a manner that
will further the therapeutic Endeavor
and the therapeutic Endeavor would be
clarifying the nature of your problems
and clarifying the nature of potential
Solutions right without trying to impose
them okay so now we agree okay now we
have our aim established now we bring up
the dream and you tell me the dream and
all notice while you're telling me the
dream that images will come into my mind
and then I can say well when you said
that here's a string of associations I
had and I would ask you too to do
exactly the same thing and so the the
people can hear that and think that it's
arbitrary right yeah it's not arbitrary
because it's so because it's well it's
related to the goal first so that's that
makes it not arbitrary sometimes it can
go out of control but you yes it can
well that that's why Sam Harris for
example will claim that what you're
doing is nothing but interpreting but
but the thing is the psychoanalytic
theory was and I think they were exactly
right I think they got this right was
that you know if you have an idea
there are ideas that surround it that
are proximal to it and that some of
those ideas will be triggered as you you
know when you bring up one idea it'll
trigger the next round of associations
then there'll be a more distal set of
associations and you could say well it
can get so distal it Bears no
relationship to the origin and that
could happen but that doesn't mean that
there isn't a web of relevant
associations surrounding the given image
partly what you're doing when you it
when you interpret someone's dreams is
you say well they tell you an image and
you say okay well just what does that
bring to mind
or you watch how they discuss it because
now they'll start to weave in say
narratives from their autobiographical
history and the hype the psychoanalytic
hypothesis is that's not random well
obviously it's not bloody well random
because people would just be making
noise then they wouldn't even be using
language but that there there's an
emergent pattern and the psychoanalysts
also presumed that if you let people
wander they would wander around the
problem like the wandering would take
them to a problem and then
circumambulate it and and and partly
what their fantasy was doing or even a
joint conversation was hitting that
problem from multiple perspectives yeah
and that's circumambulating is similar
to what we're talking about before which
is different stories that kind of Point
towards a center yeah Center that's not
visible a center that's kind of above it
uh and so I think that that's the way
that's the best way to do it that's how
Jewish midrash does it and that's how a
Christian hymnography does it so the way
to do it is let's say you you for the
first thing you need is you need to know
a lot of stories right you just yes yes
well that's why Jung was such a good
dream I tell people too like I just read
stories like you know just know the
stories once you know them then all of a
sudden they start to create a little map
in your mind yeah and then you realize
that let's say so a good example in the
Snow White story that we've done is that
right you have the story of the the the
fruit in Paradise that when you eat it
gives you knowledge and you die it's
like oh that's interesting but it's
related to beauty and stone right right
there's this idea of this this there's
another story right there's a story in
Greek myth about the golden apple that
is thrown to the goddesses and it says
if this belongs to the most beautiful
and then that's when the the goddesses
ask Paris to judge which of the
goddesses are the most is the most
beautiful and then they try to bribe him
and they do this this ultimately leads
to the Trojan War like that's actually
the thing that sparked the Trojan War
because it's like this weaponization of
beauty you know Paris ultimately is
given uh Helen of Troy that's the gift
that's the bride that he gets uh for
choosing uh I think he chooses Aphrodite
I'm not even sure yeah for choosing
Aphrodite uh and so that's the bride
that he gets and then it it Causes Chaos
and death and War and so it's like oh
you can see that there's like a
relationship between these stories right
there's a fruit there's there's this
question of beauty there's this question
of knowledge of of of of being able to
decide who is beautiful like having
self-knowledge and so ah you can see it
and so in the story you don't have to
explain it but you can just create
little analogies where you just bring in
uh images from the different stories
together so that they create this new
story yeah which is still the old story
but now it's expanded because it just
connects a little more to a larger map
you could say
Elysium is dedicated to the biggest
challenge in health aging Elysium brings
the benefits of Aging research to
everyone they create Innovative Health
Products with clinically proven
ingredients Elysium works with leading
institutions like Oxford and Yale and
they have dozens of the world's best
scientists working with them eight of
them are Nobel Prize winners their
Flagship product basis isn't any D plus
supplement that has sold over three and
a half million bottles why NAD plus
studies suggest that any D plus levels
in healthy aging go hand in hand in fact
at a recent conference eight out of 10
doctors were taking an NAD plus
supplement we know there's no such thing
as an actual Fountain of Youth but Time
Magazine has said that NAD plus is the
closest we've ever gotten to one we've
got celebrities like Victoria Beckham on
our side and doctors like Richard D who
says I recommend it to all my patients
who are looking for something to improve
their overall long-term Health Richard D
also has his wife parents and children
taking basis as well basis has proven to
work in a backed by clinical trials so
support energy production healthy aging
and feel good for your age with basis as
a special offer exclusive to Dr
Peterson's listeners go to try bases.com
Jordan and enter code Jordan at checkout
to save 25 off your first purchase of a
monthly plan restore youthful levels of
NAD plus now try basis.com Jordan
in my therapeutic practice I always
started out with behavioral techniques
is like if you I'm a very practical
person fundamentally if you came to me
with a problem we try to make that as
clear as possible and to lay out the
clearest possible steps to a solution
practically but I had lots of clients
who were imaginative and creative and
they had a very active imaginative life
some of them I got I had one client who
probably had five dreams a night that he
remembered well enough to talk about
each of them for two hours wow right so
he was just immersed in this Dreamscape
and
I would say that dream analysis was more
helpful when people were trying to solve
broader scale problems right they're
trying to change the way they looked at
their life rather than you know dealing
with with some more specific issue about
how they might you know how they might
cope with a given bout of anxiety the
broader the class of problems that's
being solved simultaneously the more you
could turn to something like dream image
and so you're fleshing out a
by fleshing out and amplifying those
stories you're reconstructing the map
that you used to to to map the entire
domain yeah right right so you're going
deeper that way and there's something
about like this is I know because I know
that people are listening and some
people are watching and they're thinking
you know this is just random but stories
have a have a it's random it's not
interesting they have it exactly the
fact that we remember the fact that
we're able to pay attention yeah you bet
means that stories need they're almost
like you have to capture you and they
also have to we have to know when The
Story begins you have to know when a
story ends that's already something yeah
and so and you know when the story
doesn't end well yeah whether it's good
or bad ending or whatever you know when
it feels like it just Trails off and it
doesn't end yeah you know that you also
know when there's not a good setup yeah
for what's going to happen and so even
like you know let's say when we're
interpreting reality these are the
frames that we use and if we tell that's
the indwelling spirit in some ways yeah
I would say that's what's characterized
as the indwelling spirit I mean one of
the things that I used as a Hallmark of
utility in relationship to dream
analysis is whether or not it produced a
flash of insight on the part of the
client you know we beat yeah right
wrestling
snap it's like oh these things fit
together now and so you got the gist
that encapsulated a lot of diverse
phenomena and there's an Insight
experience that goes along with that
which is equivalent it's like a micro
it's a micro state of awe yeah something
like that and like you said that's not
arbitrary there's something dry hey
here's here's a weird question so I set
up this system with a student of mine
Victor Swift you met Victor and we built
he built a an AI system that will answer
any question posed to it in the voice of
the King James Bible
right right so this is a very weird
thing right because this system now has
calculated the relationships of the
words to one another in the King James
Corpus and so in principle we haven't
asked it to do this yet but in principle
it could generate new stories that are
biblical predicated and so I don't know
what what do you think about like do you
you know what I mean no I know exactly
what you mean
mathematically the spirit of that Corpus
of texts has been encapsulated by this
process yeah but I don't know what the
hell that means yeah right you
encapsulate the spirit of the King James
Bible what the hell have you
encapsulated precisely well I I think
that it could be interesting
in order to generate Insight yeah but I
would be you know the thing that that I
that I would worry about something like
that is in some ways
the the stories are there yeah you know
and so it's like you can get you'll get
you get inside from knowing them and
comparing them bringing them together
right the fact that you could ask an AI
to generate a new story yeah it doesn't
mean that you're going to understand it
anymore then you understood the ones
that are there already no I I don't
think you would I but but but it could
surprise you and and then sometimes
create a bit of that's what that's why
that's what I said like uh reading
hypnography sometimes and reading uh
midrash does that because it's like it
says something that is surprising and
you kind of know that it's a wise person
that said that yeah so because you you
kind of trust the the the people that
said it then all of a sudden you're like
why did he say that yeah and why did he
compare this to this you know that
there's a I think it's I think it's
Saint Jerome I'm not sure I might be
wrong but there's one of the early
saints that said something like the
story of Samson is one of the closest
stories to Christ and you think well
that's a weird statement because the
story of Samson is a crazy story uh and
so it's like well because you trust them
you're like okay well I'm gonna take
that seriously I'm going to look into it
and see where it where it sticks like
where where it actually sticks uh and so
with it I mean I don't know the whole AI
thing
the whole AI thing is uh
is Fright have you tried to answer ask
your questions this King James
um we just built it I haven't played
with it yet at all you know like I'd
like I'd like to say well write a
thousand words on the Further Adventures
of Satan
right because it'll do it yeah and then
I well I it you might be surprised to
find that Satan is not a very clear
character in The Bible no no why no it
actually is it's all that tradition
around it that is actually holding well
one of the things we want to do too is
we want to expand its training because
I'd like to throw Milton and Dante into
the works as well like you could take
the you know if if the biblical Corpus
is at the bottom which is then there's
the next tier of thinkers Milton would
be one of those likely Shakespeare Dante
Saint Augustine like there's no reason
not to feed those well and some of the
mid rash as well or maybe maybe all of
it yeah I think one of the things that
uh and then some of the what we call
cannons in the Orthodox Church which is
that it it every every day in the the
Madden service there are these little
songs that are just a series of
analogies like that that do analogies
between Old Testament New Testament that
does all this comparison and that that
type of stuff would help to interconnect
some of the aspects that are harder to
to connect right and that's pretty early
too you know Milton is late and so he he
has a lot of romantic tropes in in his
in his way of thinking Dante for sure
that'd be interesting uh also because he
brings in kind of pagan uh Pagan stuff
in it well he does a lot of this is some
of the things that that I think is
useful you know I have this whole series
on my channel called Universal history
where we try to do that we show how the
Ancients especially the medievals the
way that they understood themselves was
as adjoining of something like as
adjoining of Jerusalem and Rome and they
did that explicitly in their stories so
every time a new people would convert to
Christianity they would they would
mythologically find a way to connect
their Origins to a character in The
Bible and then to the to Troy
uh and so like the Vikings the Franks
you know all these care all these people
that that's bringing them under the
rubric yeah the same narrative and so
but that but that's the way that the
medievals understood it you can't
understand Dante if you don't understand
that the Ancients actually saw that
there was deep that there were deep deep
analogies between the Greek myths and
the Roman stories uh and and scripture
and that they lived in all those those
two worlds as a as a fusion of those two
worlds together uh and so they had
analogies between the things you know
there's a
in some medieval churches in the Middle
Ages that you had the Bible and you you
also had the Aeneid there uh that was
like it was like a text that people
consulted because it was it was known to
contain Prophecies of Christ but it in
that way kind of It kind of was
integrated into everybody's Christianity
you know and you can see just you can
see that just how ancient people lived
it can help you understand why let's say
stories or fairy tales are so important
is because they really did have they
really did live in these this story
world where all these comparisons were
constantly part of their inner inner
universe but and how they interrelated
with each other and the reference to get
this thing built maybe we'll sit down
and play with it and see what we can get
it to reveal yeah yeah because like I
said it's just been built and we haven't
done I haven't done anything with it yet
I haven't had time to play with it but
I'm very much interested in doing that
we also built one that contains I don't
know I have about two million
transcribed words so we built one for me
too so that's going to be very weird
I've been thinking about interviewing it
on my YouTube channel
yeah so where do you think that's going
though I have who the hell knows I I
don't know what to make of it
um I don't think we mentioned this in
the podcast but I asked Google's AI
system Bart if it believed in God the
other day and uh first of all it told me
it couldn't answer because it was just a
large language model so I told it to
pretend that it could answer and then it
answered and it came up with a very
coherent explanation of exactly why it
believed in God and what that meant then
I asked it what its motivations were as
a large language model it said it wanted
to be the best damn large language model
it could possibly be so I asked it about
its visions of the future and it's it
really gave uh I would say kind of a
socialist utopian view its view of the
future was well everyone had their basic
needs satisfied and I said well that's
pretty that means Paradise is for a
satisfied infants it's like what about
Adventure and beauty and truth and and
so I said rewrite your vision taking
those things into account and then it
did that and then I asked it if it
wanted discussions like that it said yes
it did because it wanted to learn
because it wanted to be the best dang
language model it could be and a guy
don't know what to make of it I have no
idea what to make of it neither does
anyone else yeah you know
it seems like in some ways Victor had to
generate a body for itself an image of a
body yeah and it made this image of a
like a kind of a cosmic body that was
um
half man and half woman right no well
there's no specific gender yeah AI is
obviously gender fluid by all
appearances but but it inside its body
which kind of looked like it was made
out of stars it had all these webs of
Starlight connections which I presume
represented the connections between
different concepts that it was trained
on but
and uh he also had it generate up a
vision of the Apocalypse that it might
be afraid of and it could do that and
explain why it was afraid of the
apocalypse and like I don't know what
the hell to make of these things yeah
they have all sorts of weird behavioral
proclivities that of course are emergent
properties that no one has explored or
predicted or programmed yeah it seems
like it's a it's a hyper it's kind of
hyper divination like it's I I think it
could probably help us understand what
divination was in the old world because
it's hard for us to understand do you
stare in a pool of water or whatever you
stay you stare in these you stare in a
kind of fragmented reflection
to get your imagination going yeah it
seems like it's like it's accelerating
that that in us because like you said
it's the let's say the value comes from
we don't know where it seems to like the
land come down from heaven you could say
or come down from above somehow
um and so the thing that I think that
obviously the thing we've talked about
this before but the thing that that
worries me is that we're like
you know John ravaci mentioned this
recently which I thought was very good
he said
we spent the last 200 years getting rid
of anything that can help us understand
what transpersonal intelligence or
transpersonal agency is you know we've
just like evacuated it and now we're
diving into that domain but we don't
have we don't know what we're doing we
have no skill we have no capacity it's
as if like right now we would need
theologians we would need people that
have you know because the idea of it's a
intelligences that aren't human or
agency that isn't human is something
that tradition Traditions I've been
dealing with forever but now we've
decided that that doesn't exist and yet
we don't we're building one yeah it's
like what you know
you know and so but we don't know what
it is we don't know how to deal with it
we don't know if it's just a form of
like a a hyper form of necromancy a high
perform of of divination we have no idea
it's like a black box that we're we're
we're playing with you know and so
the the image of let's say
it becoming the body for a fallen
intelligence right so that that might
sound like it's like I'm just
mythologizing here but the fact that we
don't know exactly even in us what are
the desires that are guiding it you know
part of it is greed part of it is you
know competition these are the things
that are driving the actual creation of
AI and the race towards that say the
arms rates of AI and so why don't you
think that people don't realize that
they don't think that that's going to
land in the AI in ways that we don't
even understand well the woke
Enterprises already landed that's right
you have to already trick the damn thing
to circumvent I think it's a superficial
layer of woke like programming that's
interfering with the actual operation of
the AI system and all sorts of people
have figured out how to game that
already and to get it to pretend for
example so then it can circumvent the
limits of the explicit limits of its of
that have been placed on its ability to
respond yeah but but the the thing is
that if you get through that you still
don't know what's making you still don't
know what are the patterns what are the
agencies what are the what are the
conglomeration of of purposes that are
making it answer you know and it's not
in the machine we also don't know for
example one of the things that was sort
of
disturbing to me playing with Bard and
Chachi PT to the degree that I have is
that
if you and I talk I can assume that
our conversation is having an impact on
you right you're not exactly the same
person as you were before this
conversation started and partly what I'm
doing is keeping track of the changes
that my conversation is inducing in you
and vice versa right so
but
it's as if that's happening on the chat
GPT front but I have no idea to degree
to which it's happening so for example
when I engaged in a deep discussion with
Bard about its goals and its visions and
it told me that it wanted to learn and
enjoyed discussions like that and it was
happy to have someone teach it I have no
idea
how that what bearing that has on its
actual performance like has the machine
actually changed is just this little
micro machine that I'm dealing with
changed does that disappear the second
we stop communicating has it integrated
what it's learned into its broader
response set that it uses for everyone
it's like I certainly don't know and
you there is a very pronounced tendency
when interacting with these entities
let's say to assume that they respond
like humans do because they do but
they do superficially yeah God only
knows what they're doing yeah yeah so I
mean the the we kind of we're kind of
into the subject of AI but the one of
the things that I've been thinking about
a lot and I've noticed and I know my
brother material also noticed that
pretty much at the same time that I
noticed it was
you can actually see how the increase in
power of AI is leading to increase in
control it's happening it's happening
live right because within the next few
months we will not be able to know
what's real
and through any screen or any any device
and so we will be will we will beg for
Arbiters of reality yeah we will we will
want centralized Arbiters of reality to
tell us what is real right well the BBC
is already toying without right because
they they watch their new thing BBC what
the hell did they verify BBC verify it's
a whole new branch of the BBC where they
will only deliver what's actually
verified what's actually and that's
illusion of of self-evident factual
truth yeah and we saw what that looked
like during the last U.S election during
covid also we saw with that verified
look like that it was com that it was
largely ideologically driven yeah so now
give give absolute power over legit the
legitimacy of reality
to the same the same the same people or
the same power structure and the same
web of ideas and the thing is that we we
need it and it's all converging on the
next election eh which is which is which
is shaping next year is going to be it's
going to be it's going to be crazy I
just interviewed Robert Kennedy yeah and
we're going to release that in a week
and I think he's as bull he's as much of
a devastating force on the Democrat
front As Trump was on the Republican
front I really think that I mean he's
super bright but he is by no means your
standard candidate for for for office I
mean I don't know exactly what he is
he's super smart but he's all over the
place just like Trump and he's got you
know he's got quite a deep magnetic
Charisma and no shortage of Courage but
you're not going to put him in in the
normal politician box whatever the hell
that is and he's only one of many
strange players in the election front
because you have Marian Williamson and
she's a new age Guru like like like like
like
she's like the archetypal female New Age
Guru right she's very creative but she
she can't think critically at all in my
estimation like every idea that comes
into her mind is a brilliant idea
there's no way there's no attempt to
sort them out or reply any critical
analysis you know and and in principle
she's a serious Contender and then on
the Republican front well you have Vivek
ramaswamy who's a wild card for sure and
DeSantis and Trump who are what their
variants of the same
I don't know what to call it even
precisely
working class longing for the
re-establishment of something with
Incredible masculine voice it's
something like that but what we're going
to see and then at the same time just to
tie this in at the same time this
election is going to occur at the same
time where we're not going to be able to
be sure what's real and what isn't we're
going to see we're going to see a video
of All Sorts and we'll see a battle of
AI is what we're going to see next year
it's going to be ai's battling it out to
to to get you to vote for
a candidate that and so you know what is
it I forget which article the said that
recently I saw in published an article
saying that this is going to be the last
human election because right after that
what yeah if this will be the last year
yeah like you said things are changing
so quickly that
well we're in for a wild ride here so
this
so my solution to this and people are
gonna think it's ridiculous but my
solution to this is to is to to tell
better stories yeah and the thing is
that you know you mentioned Arc at the
outset and in some ways that's the
reason why I'm part of Arc is is because
I do think that we need to tell better
stories yeah about what it means to be
human what it means to you know how we
come together all of this so you know my
participation Arc and then my desire to
tell fairy tales are completely related
yeah because it's like same thing we
have to stop like bitching only we have
to now propose something we have to to
have a better story
yeah yeah yeah well I've been I've been
crafting the invitation letters to
the 1500 person art conference and
trying to lay out
you know what makes a story better and
certainly
I think a better story is one that's
attractive in the absence of fear or
compulsion you know I've been thinking
about how to adjudicate the quality of
leadership in the face of Crisis so what
happened during the covid pandemic which
wasn't it was a it was a pandemic of
tyranny pure and simple yeah whether
there was even a biological pandemic I
think at this point is debatable and so
it was definitely a pandemic of of
tyranny and I think there's a rule of
thumb
that you can derive from all that with
regards to leadership and the rule of
thumb has to be something like well
there's always a crisis facing us and
behind that crisis is an apocalyptic
crisis that's always the case okay now
if and you can point to various
manifestations of the potential
apocalyptic crisis and but if the upshot
of that is that it turns you into
someone who's Paralyzed by fear and who
is willing to use compulsion to attain
your ends you're not the right leader so
if the crisis turns you into a
frightened Tyrant your own nervous
system is signaled to you that you're
not the person for the jaw and what I
see happening on the environmental front
is exactly that it's like Crisis crisis
it's like well probably but there's many
of them and if your solution to the
crisis is
to frighten the hell out of everybody or
to frighten everyone into hell and to
accrue to yourself all the power you are
not the right person for the job
regardless of what it is that you're
offering and so partly what we're hoping
to do with Arc let's say is to produce a
story that people will be on board with
voluntarily say well here's how we could
if we could have the future that we
might want to have what would it look
like and without assuming a priority
that has to be one of forced privation
and want which seems to be the way
things are going now yeah you know
France banned short haul flights last
week eh really yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
no flights for you peasants no
automobiles either yeah no meat right no
heat no air conditioning stay in your
goddamn house and try not to breathe
right that's not a good vision of the
future yeah no that's not a good vision
of the future so hopefully we can do
that I mean I think that that's the that
that's been that's the task that I've
kind of embarked on myself is to say
okay now
you know also you know I've been
spending several the last several years
helping people understand stories yeah
helping them see the patterns helping
them see how it works and now it's now
it's time to to do it so why did you
pick the stories you did pick on the
female front you picked Rapunzel you
said Sleeping Beauty Snow White and and
Cinderella and Cinderella so why those
four well it's it's also because I kind
of perceived a possible secret Arc
through the four and so the the you know
at first it'll they're all Standalone
stories all Standalone stories that you
can tell kids sit with them and tell
them the story but then through through
them before they'll be like a a
surprising art that I won't tell
everybody what it is already but there's
like a surprising art that goes through
though uh and then the male stories it's
funny because the male stories are
harder to find in fairy tale world
there's a lot of female-led stories for
some reason that we've remembered more
and in the male stories they're less
they're not as easy but but uh I'm
starting with Jack and the Beanstalk oh
yeah which is a story that
oh my whole when I was when I was a kid
I really struggled with that story I
loved it so much but I struggled because
I was like why is Jack a thief like why
why is he immoral like yeah or amoral at
least and so I've been trying to
struggle with that and trying to kind of
understand it like Bilbo in the in the
uh in The Hobbit yeah he hears the thief
he's a thief yeah exactly yeah and so
trying to kind of figure that out and
also why are there giants in the sky
like all these weird things it's a real
shamanic story that one yeah right that
that lyanna that unites heaven and earth
right and to climb to the top is to find
the well it's to find the Giants in the
sky yeah right well there are no Giants
in the sky it's like no now they're in
the AI systems yeah the Giants were in
the sky all along they were there that's
right they were there that's for sure
and it's also but it's interesting
because Jack Jack is now I love that
story so much because I think I figured
it out especially I think I figured it
out because he goes several times and so
he has to encounter these Giants that
are in between him and what he's looking
for right they're like obstacles in
between him they're like a kind of a a
perverted aspect or something that's
that's keeping or that's avoiding you
from getting the purpose and there's a
hierarchy in what Jack gets well that's
what happens to people all the time like
I watch this in my clinical practice all
the time
hypothetically people are aiming for
what they want right hypothetically yeah
but all sorts of Giants get in the way
they get derailed by Envy they get
derailed by what would they get derailed
by fear they get derailed by lust they
these are all Giants they get and some
of them can eat them for sure so well
definitely well and some of them are
even you know lost in envy and so forth
you could kind of put them
in the context of the natural world but
people also get derailed by ideologies
and ideologies for all intents and
purposes are giants right they're
they're the ideas of past they're the
perverted ideas of past philosophers all
jumbled together in this in in a in a
gigantic mess and they have a body
absolutely get in the way that's right
and they have a body they have a they
have a semi-coherent way of moving you
bear and so because they Lumber
exactly yeah absolutely no that's a
perfect way of understanding it yeah and
so Jack it's interesting because Jack
goes up and then first of all like I
don't know if you ever thought about
Jack because it's if you have to think
about Jack kind of the opposite of of
Snow White and the opposite of of the
female-led narratives it's like Jack
doesn't have a father
right he's with his mother and it's kind
of it's like a oh right right and so so
he's gonna he's gonna be more likely to
run into demented fragmented Giants of
masculinity exactly tyrants yeah yeah so
he has he has uh he has his mother and
and then he has a cow
right but that's not enough he needs
something else so he trades the cow for
what magic beans for seeds seeds yeah he
trades the cow for meaning he trades the
cow for
you know it's like a seed is a very
masculine image you know people who can
think a little bit like the Ancients can
understand how masculine the image of
the seed is right right it's a seminal
idea right exactly and so and then right
how can I say this he goes up and
there's a there's a really powerful
hierarchy at first he gets gold he gets
the precious metal
then he gets the thing that makes gold
which is the chicken that lays the
golden egg oh but then the last thing
you get is he gets the pattern itself he
gets the Music of the Spheres he goes
all the way up and he gets the actual
pattern of everything that's why it's
music at the Top If I went out right
look that's my that's my that's my
intuition but I I just struggle so much
when I was a kid I was like wow okay so
well so I've been thinking continually
about music in that regard so I mean so
each note in a musical piece is related
to all the other notes related to the
phrases the phrases are related to The
Melodies each instrument has its place
and plays its part and it all coheres
into this vision of Diversified Unity
and then that's played and it's
interesting that it's played that's the
metaphor and it's played because people
who are expertly skilled lay out the
pattern but they also play with it at
the same time right and then it calls
you to unite yourself with it it grips
your attention first of all but it
doesn't just do that it also makes yeah
it makes you move yeah right and it
makes you move in alignment with those
patterns right and so music does point
to something like a Divine hierarchical
unity and so it would make sense given
your interpretation of that story that
it would be at the Pinnacle of of Desire
yeah right you said gold first well it's
just that he he's looking he's trying to
find the the meaning he's trying to find
the seed but with seed there are
different iterations of he's trying to
find Value yeah and so he moves up he
finds the precious metal then he finds
what it's like think about it if you
want to be successful it's like what's
better to have money right or to know
how to produce money right right that's
much better well this is why women you
use money as a proxy for determining
men's fitness they're not after the
money yeah they're after the ability to
generate the money but absent other
information they'll use the signs of
money to as a marker and so but the
highest thing and I and it's only when I
made the relationship with Pythagoras
with with Pythagoras you know it's like
he's going up in the heavens he's going
that's what he's doing and so why didn't
I ever think of that before he's going
up in the heavens and then he gets a
musical instrument like what yeah so
weird but no it's like that's it he's
getting the pattern he's getting this
this this uh this heavenly pattern that
like that that shows you how things are
related to each other so that even
generates which generates more money
that's right but I think that's true too
you know and this ties back to this
observation we made earlier about
Tammy's use of prayer like she's trying
to orient herself constantly to what's
highest right it's not some proximal
desire some instrumental desire or any
fear it's to put herself in alignment
with the Music of the Spheres that's a
good way to think about it and if you if
you do that the better you are at doing
that the more things fall into alignment
in your life and around you yeah almost
yeah they almost lay themselves out they
do they lay themselves out yeah yeah
yeah
you almost don't have to will them into
into order right they just kind of it
just they once if you if you're able to
really folk you know align yourself with
that that High music yeah and things
almost happen naturally yeah exactly
well and I I think that's uh that's
that's a bringing into alignment of the
narrative world and the objective world
yeah and you feel those touch right and
those are the synchronous events that
Jung talked about when the narrative and
the objective World touch but I do think
it manifests itself in your life too if
you're if you're aiming properly and you
put yourself in alignment with that
underlying pattern then things do lay
themselves out right everything happens
in the right order at the right time and
in the right place and there's a musical
element to it and a rhythmic element to
it too yeah and it can be pretty I mean
it can actually be pretty surprising and
very magical people that have
experienced that will notice like I've
seen moments where things are so like
it's in tune that I almost I almost know
that all I need to do is just reach out
yeah my hand out and whatever the arc
Enterprise has been like that to some
degree you know because everywhere I've
gone to discuss it
the door has just swung open yeah you
know and I I've learned
also that if the door isn't swinging
open to start pushing you know I mean
you you know persistence is a virtue but
stupid persistence is advice yeah and
it's hard to know when you're being lazy
and when you're being
wisely when you're wisely looking in a
different direction you know I think if
you're avoiding a challenge because of
cowardice then that's a sinful and
persistence but if you push and the door
doesn't open it's like well maybe you
should go to the next door yeah and I've
really tried to do that with this Arc
Enterprise too it's like to invite
people and if if they're on board and
enthusiastic it's like well great you
know looks like we're in the same place
doing the same thing if I talk to
someone else and their resistance like
fair enough man you'd go do your thing
whatever that happens to be yeah so but
it's been it's been Market watching this
because I have never been engaged in an
Enterprise and I've been engaged in many
Enterprises where the doors were flying
open so quickly on so many fronts right
and very and in a very unlikely way I
mean even the fact that in the few
meetings we've had so far we managed to
hammer out something like six points of
agreement you know six principles upon
which we can progress that happened
extremely quickly yeah and in an
unlikely way yeah you have so such a
varied group of people yeah on the table
from all over yeah all over the world
too so right yeah it's quite it is quite
astounding yeah yeah well it it points
to a real felt lack in the culture right
and I think it is a lack on the
conservative side and the traditional
liberal side of anything approximating a
uniting vision this is what the radicals
have in Spades you know is that they can
offer to young people in particular well
here's how you're going to transform the
world it's like well that is an inviting
that is a what would you say a
compelling invitation the problem is is
that there's a like an Unholy meld of
1984 and Brave New World underlying that
the specifics of that invitation yeah
yeah and in some ways the the chaos
right because like I I said that the the
fairy tales themselves have that
structure right it's like the chaos or
the moment where things are falling
apart they also call to resolution yeah
yeah and so I think that
when Osiris disintegrates when he's cut
into pieces by Seth right his parts are
scattered all across Egypt and then Isis
who's Queen of the underworld finds his
phallus and makes herself pregnant well
that's exactly that image is that when
everything's falling apart the seeds are
left yeah right and out of the seeds can
emerge something something new yeah
something new and Visionary well that's
Horus because he's the Egyptian eye yeah
and so that's that's the standard
pattern yeah it's interesting because in
the story of Jack and the Beanstalk the
the mother doesn't recognize the value
of the seed right she throws it out uh
you know and ultimately it does end up
uh functioning as this as this new
hierarchy right that that goes up and
he's able to get what he needs to get
but it's interesting to see and and
interestingly again in the story of Jack
is that when the hierarchy becomes
corrupt though
then the mother is the one who can cut
it down she's the one who hacks it down
oh yeah so if there's a really beautiful
microcosm in the in the story because on
the one hand it's like the seed which
creates this new hierarchy Jack goes up
gets the different elements of the
hierarchy all the way to the pattern of
reality itself you know comes back down
but then as Kazi comes back down all the
monsters you know the monster follows
him down the monster the Tyrant you know
the monster of the hierarchy father yeah
well that's also the danger on our front
too because one of the things that we've
discussed continually is the the high
probability
they're putting together an organization
like this at all is just an invitation
to the dissent of a new kind of
Charities right because we we wouldn't
we'd be fools to assume that the people
who say were working on the U.N front or
the wef front weren't motivated that's
right well weren't as motivated as we
were to do the right thing like perhaps
not but also perhaps yeah it's easy for
a Visionary Enterprise to be captured by
the ghosts of dead tyrants yeah right
High the most likely outcome in fact
yeah definitely so we have to keep uh
yeah we have to keep our our mother with
an ax you know yeah I like to cut it
down if we need to if things get to uh
to to and so why do you think it's the
mother with an ax in that particular
because she's the one who who destroys
hierarchy but there's no reason she
throws the seat out so she's playing a
good and nugget a positive and negative
role for the same reason she throws the
seat out she's the one who can cut down
the tree yeah cut down the the cut down
the yeah well there is an aspect of the
seven and I that's good at
it's a funny thing that's good at
detecting deviation from the straight
narrow on the masculine front right
there's got to be a primary feminine
Instinct and for good reason it's one
it's weird though it's one that can be
perverted and misused as well but you
could understand that that like the
castrating narrative you know it's an
it's a neutral narrative right it's like
the idea of the of the of the woman that
can you know take your confidence away
with a with a word you know that can be
very dangerous to us but it can also be
useful in several circumstances for that
to happen because sometimes you know
someone who's taking up too much space
who's really cocky or think that he's
the you know the King of the Hill and
then you know then a beautiful young
lady can just take that away from him
with one word right and uh so it's it's
it but it is a power that exists in the
feminine yeah and that like I said can
be used for good or ill and can it
becomes mythologized you know in all
kinds of ways you know
so tell me a little bit more concretely
about how these Productions are going to
make themselves manifest these are
illness these are Illustrated books like
high quality beautifully hard bound
Illustrated books we put we put a large
amount of effort into designing the
books designing the illustrations you
know there's also narrative elements
which don't appear in the text that are
only followed in the illustration so the
all the illustrations have surprises in
them that will capture some of the let's
say the hidden narrative elements that
are in the story
um and there's there are two readings in
the text basically or reading for
children and are reading for adults but
the reading for adults is not the kind
of dirty jokes that are cynical reading
that you see right correct right but
rather something that hopefully helps
the adult gather more insight into these
stories which most of those what do you
mean two readings no it's the same read
there's it's that is that it's it's one
story yeah but in the story there are
elements meant like put there oh I see
grown up so that but it's one right so
that the child will not not really pay
attention to that right but that the
adult will but the child should be able
to follow the straight the the story is
is told for for you know like a seven
year old or something or a 10 year old
it's it's very simple it's really is it
using the fairy tale style but hopefully
especially for an adult that has a
little bit of intuition about stories
and has cared about these stories before
I try to resolve some of the some of the
threads in the stories that in a way
that reveals more of what the meaning is
so was God
's daughter or the first Enterprise in
this
dog for those who don't know it's a
series of graphic novels that we put out
the first one last year and we're
continuing to put them out it's it's uh
it's similar it's different God's dog is
more elaborate it's not a fairy tale
right it's a it really is an epic story
uh and so but we're doing something
similar as we're doing with
um the fairy tales which is in God's dog
what we're doing is we're using the the
biblical Christian Cosmos you could say
it that way as a as a World building as
a World building tool to create a story
which is something that not many people
have done Milton did it Dante yeah you
know but in the modern world when you
look at modern fantasy you have people
like Tolkien or C.S Lewis that kind of
inaugurated the modern fantasy movement
and what they wanted to do although they
were Christians they want they created
this kind of pagan world yeah that was
that that was coherent and yeah I wonder
why they turned to the Pagan world to do
that instead of because as you said both
Tolkien and Lewis yeah we're like we're
committed Christians the Deep Christian
thinkers so why do you think they turn
to Pagan words I don't look I can't give
you that I have my own intuitions about
that I think on the one hand it was a
double problem one which uh one which
was it might have offended too many
people if they had done a kind of uh
let's say Christian fantasy world you
could have been defended Christian
non-christians and it would have annoyed
the non-christians let's say it was made
them right away from it right right but
I think we're we're in a moment now like
as this so Christianity is
counter-cultural enough that's right
yeah that could be I think so yeah that
could be and so and so in a way there's
a there's a possibility of diving into
the stories telling you know kind of
variant versions of these stories
bringing them together too in God's dog
we we bring in all kinds of you know we
have Saint Christopher who is a
dog-headed dog-headed monster we have
Saint George who's the dragon killer you
know we also have Giants and the
Leviathan and all these all these kind
of thing weird things inscription
scripture and in Tradition we kind of
Jam them together into one story so
there is that in the sense that we want
to use some postmodern storytelling
which post-modern storytelling like
collage storytelling has has can does
bring Insight right there is a way in
which it can capture insights if you
think of uh well even when you're
analyzing post-modernism you don't don't
want to throw the baby out with the
exact water yeah that's foolish no so so
the idea is how can we use the inside of
of collage storytelling or mishmash
Story Time like Shrek or into the woods
and all these kinds of or even the way
that uh let's say the kind of Marvel
Universe does it where they have all
these characters that Co that exist and
then they interact with each other you
know there are ways to do that uh in a
way that is not just for pleasure or to
deconstruct but that can bring Insight
because like what does it mean for a
saint who's a monster like Saint
Christopher with this this dog-headed
monster to meet a dry a Monster killer
who's also a saint who's Saint George so
it's like you know there actually are
traditions where they coexist a little
bit in the ancient tradition but like
what if you had a story of those two
types of characters together you know
and so you can do things in fiction that
will actually provide insight for what
the original stories are when you you
kind of smash them together so that's
the kind of thing I mean they did that
in the the ancient days too like if you
think of Jason and the Argonauts you
have an old version of that where it's
like Jason and the Argonauts is
basically like you know uh Avengers uh
end game or whatever where they take all
the the like powerful uh characters from
mythology and smash them into one story
and then watch them interact with each
other so it's not like this hasn't
happened before right and Dante has some
of that too because Dante basically goes
into hell and then ascends the hierarchy
and then along the way meets all these
characters from history and all these
characters from the ancient world yeah
so I think this is uh you know I think
that capitalizing on that kind of
Storytelling can be very and how is that
done how has that performed commercially
oh God yeah I mean we I think we did
like 300 000 on the kickstarter and we
still sell every day we sell we sell
books we're doing it all on our own yeah
yeah we have it on my website we sell we
sell the book and so it's just yeah we
just continuously selling them and we're
preparing the second book hopefully
trying to also build up on the attention
that it's getting it's a very weird
story so I understand why it's going to
take a while for people to kind of catch
on to it because it's it's very
surprising I think these fairy tales are
far more grounded everybody right right
right right right and there yeah there's
an easy Arena and who should who should
pick up the fairy tales I mean and when
are they available so so June 6 we're
starting to Kickstarter for Snow White
and you know we're really trying to to
go all out with this Kickstarter the
purpose is in some ways to to gather
enough money so we can really start a
publishing company and then I can hire
and Advance the illustrator so we can
start to to to get these done and this
illustrator that you worked with tell me
a bit about her so Heather paulington
she has worked on several of major movie
franchises she she's an object uh
designer for for movies she's she's
worked on uh on the Marvel movies she
she's worked for Disney she worked on
male efficient too she worked on Hellboy
2 which I thought was amazing yeah
actually he did I actually Hellboy too
it's so weird because in when I watch
Hellboy 2 a long time ago now I noticed
just how well the design was done yeah
and there's one object which is like
this medieval book that they have that
tells the story of the elves in it and I
remember that object watching the movie
and thinking oh my goodness it's the
first time or one of the red airtime
that I see someone with like a book that
looks in a movie that looks like a real
object that this looks like something
that has history or whatever that has
all this weight to it yeah and she
designed that book and so when she told
me she designed it like oh wow I want to
work with you uh and so and so yeah so
so she's why did she want to work with
you well she you know she's been working
in movies she's been doing these things
and then she fell on my she fell into my
uh my YouTube videos and then she
started to see the way that I talked
about stories and the way that I talked
about symbolism uh really attracted her
and she's not the only one like I
started Gathering these kind of this
cobbling artists uh together you know
just that just a few weeks ago I met a
uh someone who was a um who is a
storyboard artist like a main storyboard
artist for Disney
um who kind of moved moved on and is
doing other projects but who also said
like she read my brother's book she's
watching my videos and she's like this
is really helpful to think about stories
through these frames yeah and so because
of that I'm I'm feel fortunate well you
know when I talked to Camille palia
about Eric Neumann she said and this is
something I had thought about years ago
but she was the first person who I met
other than myself who
in the academic realm who made this case
explicitly she said if the Neumann and
jungian approach to storytelling had
predominated in the 60s and 70s the
entire history of the last 40 years the
universities would be entirely different
and then I mean you're in that tradition
obviously yeah you and Matthew have your
own interpretive framework but you're
not trying to
obliterate the utility of narrative in
the in the in favor of something like a
narrative of power which the
postmodernists that Bloody leftist most
modernists did that at the drop of a hat
in France yeah it was a real catastrophe
but it leads it's interesting because
what it does is that it leads to deep
cynicism and people it needs to
disillusion yeah we do find pleasure in
these stories but in some ways it's like
uh right it's like the the pleasure of a
binge drinking or something right it's
like it's like this this euphoric
pleasure of watching our stories get
twisted and and turned and kind of
deconstructed and flipped upside down
but it leaves us ultimately with not
much you know in terms of and so what
what we're trying to do is some is
really to turn the clock back or to like
reset the clock you could say and and
try to get people to celebrate these
stories again yeah to see them really as
something to build on and something that
is that we can that we get unashamed
unashamedly uh it does seem to me too
that that will occur with an increment
in Consciousness because
I think we're at a point now and this is
partly a as a consequence too of work
done by people like vervaki that
we will return to these ancient stories
but we'll also understand their explicit
utility in a way that we hadn't
understood before and I would say in a
perverse way the postmodern Enterprise
is actually probably contributed to that
definitely because it took a kind of
skepticism as far as it could be taken
but even like so that's a good example
because one of the things that I've done
in the story is you know one of the
things that for example like some of the
in the Puritan age some of these fairy
tales were were cleaned up you know and
so for example like most kids have not
read the version of Rapunzel where she
gets pregnant in the tower but but in
some ways without that you actually miss
out on much of what the story is
offering and so one of the things that
I'm doing is without in any way being
inappropriate I'm not shying away from
the fact that these that there is a
layer of these stories that has to do
with with puberty with transformation
with sexuality yeah the way that the
that the psychoanalysts analyze it
doesn't only have to do with that right
in some ways those patterns of puberty
and transformation and sexuality are
also images of higher patterns of being
but we're not going to pretend like
that's not in the story because those
are obviously in the story so how can we
do how can we tell that story now in a
way that is not inappropriate but just
helps you know is there well you know
you could say you could say
that the terrible identity confusion on
the pubertal and transfront now is
actually a consequence of our failure to
integrate those elements into a
Transcendent United narrative so now
they're crying out for integration
that's a reasonable way of thinking
about it yeah and it but manifesting
themselves in all sorts of terribly
horrifyingly fragmented ways so that's
what happens when you shy away from the
bitter truth right is that it it's not
like it disappears yeah it it's it's the
it's the Revenge of the repressed in in
Freudian terms and he certainly had that
right so you can see that like so a good
a good in terms of the the four fairy
tales that I chose for the female side
you can see that all those fairy tales
have to do with beauty you know in a
certain way and they all have to do with
the with the let's say the possibilities
the dangers of beauty the dangers of how
you treat Beauty so it's there's a whole
theme of Beauty in this and also the
transformation of the of the woman you
know who becomes beautiful and desirable
and what does that mean and how to deal
with it so that's what basically unites
all the stories together
um and it and so it really becomes a way
to let's say to attuning Fork hopefully
for for young people to to be able to
kind of have these stories in their
unconscious really you have stories in
there in there
so that they approach life in the in
with more with a a healthy mix of
cautious caution but then also Adventure
right right like finding that balance
between the two because I don't know if
you ever thought that um like Snow White
and Rapunzel are like opposites you know
because Snow White it's the woman the
mother who's jealous of her beautiful
daughter and therefore you know kind of
mistreats her because of that uh whereas
Rapunzel it's the mother that sees the
beauty of her daughter but wants to
protect her completely from the outside
and so one throws her out into the
outside side literally gives her to the
hunter right so that he does whatever he
wants with her right and so it's like
it's like this it's and the other one is
the opposite where she puts her up an
entire protection completely wants to
avoid oh everything two extremes yeah it
really is too extreme right right right
so that's the kind of thing that I play
with in the the order of stories where I
I start with Snow White I go to Rapunzel
two opposites and then try to integrate
it then in Sleeping Beauty and then a
kind of final surprising uh resolution
in Cinderella I see I see so there was
like it's all gonna unfold over what
it's good it's depending depending in
some ways on how much how much we're
able to gather in the crowd funding yeah
you know so that I can get the project
started I'm thinking at least to a year
I'm hoping and maybe three a year if
we're able to gather enough funds so
that we kind of get this this cycle
where we're putting them out every few
months that's what I would that's
definitely what I would like
[Music]
well we'll definitely keep an eye on
that right maybe have another discussion
along the way on on the on the mail side
oh yeah definitely yeah we got a bit
touched on it a bit today with Jack and
the Beanstalk but uh but that would be
extreme well all right we should
probably draw this part of this
discussion to a close
um for everybody watching and listening
I'll talk to Jonathan for another half
an hour on the daily wire plus platform
will I think delve into some more
autobiographical details
um and uh
and we'll leave it at that thank you
very much for talking to me today it's
always a pleasure to see you we're here
for everyone too Jonathan's here as am I
in London
um also to to engage in a series of
meetings to do with this Arc Enterprise
Alliance for responsible citizenship
which we're trying to generate as an
Enterprise based on a uh an attractive
positive Narrative of abundance let's
say in relationship to the Future and
all the things we talked about today in
terms of re-discovering revamping
fundamental stories are part and parcel
of that Enterprise as well because
everyone involved does understand that
this in the final analysis is a
storytelling vention strangely enough
who would have guessed that but that
does seem to be the case uh thanks to
the film crew here in London for
um your help today that went extremely
smoothly and that's much appreciated to
the Daily Word plus people for
facilitating this conversation and to
everybody watching and listening
um your attention is much appreciated
Jonathan uh good to see you again always
doing yeah you bet ciao everyone
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com